Upgrade rel notes for Istio 1.29 update (#1999)
kyma-project/istio: docs/release-notes/1.27.0.md

We've updated the Istio version to 1.29. See [Announcing Istio 1.29](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.29.x/announcing-1.29/) and the [Istio 1.29 Upgrade Notes](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.29.x/announcing-1.29/upgrade-notes/).

> Istio 1.29 introduces three upstream changes related to the Kyma Istio module. To avoid disruption, the following temporary workarounds are applied to the Kyma Istio installation. These workarounds are intended to be removed in late July — before the removal, a dedicated breaking change notice will be published.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio 1.29 introduces three upstream changes related to the Kyma Istio module. To avoid disruption, the following temporary workarounds are applied to the Kyma Istio installation. These workarounds are intended to be removed in late July. The removal will be announced in a dedicated deletion note.
```

### Circuit Breaker Metrics Tracking Disabled by Default

> Istio 1.29 sets `DISABLE_TRACK_REMAINING_CB_METRICS=true` by default, which might result in Prometheus dashboards or alerts that rely on these metrics showing no data. As a mitigation, we sustain the old setting for the time being by keeping `DISABLE_TRACK_REMAINING_CB_METRICS=false` in the istiod deployment — meaning no breaking change for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio 1.29 sets `DISABLE_TRACK_REMAINING_CB_METRICS=true` by default, which might cause Prometheus dashboards or alerts that rely on these metrics to show no data. To prevent this, the Istio module 1.27.0 continues to use the previous setting by keeping `DISABLE_TRACK_REMAINING_CB_METRICS=false` in the istiod deployment. 

This release maintains the current behavior, so you don’t need to take any action now. However, this is only a temporary compatibility measure. Future Istio module releases will remove it and switch to Istio’s new default behavior.
```

### Debug Endpoint Authorization Enabled by Default

> Istio 1.29 sets `ENABLE_DEBUG_ENDPOINT_AUTH=true` by default, which might result in tools such as Kiali or custom monitoring tools receiving `403` responses when accessing Istio debug endpoints from non-system namespaces. As a mitigation, we sustain the old setting for the time being by keeping `ENABLE_DEBUG_ENDPOINT_AUTH=false` in the istiod deployment — meaning no breaking change for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio 1.29 sets `ENABLE_DEBUG_ENDPOINT_AUTH=true` by default, which might result in tools such as Kiali or custom monitoring tools receiving `403` responses when accessing Istio debug endpoints from non-system namespaces. As a mitigation, Istio module 1.27.0 maintains the previous setting for the time being by keeping `ENABLE_DEBUG_ENDPOINT_AUTH=false` in the istiod deployment. 

This release maintains the current behavior, so you don’t need to take any action now. However, this is only a temporary compatibility measure. Future Istio module releases will remove it and switch to Istio’s new default behavior.
```

### HTTP Compression of Envoy Metrics Enabled by Default

> Istio 1.29 enables HTTP compression (Brotli, Gzip, Zstd) for the Envoy **prometheus_stats** endpoint by default and removes the `sidecar.istio.io/statsCompression` Pod annotation, which might result in metric scrapers that send the **Accept-Encoding** header but cannot decompress responses failing to collect metrics. As a mitigation, we sustain the old setting for the time being by keeping `statsCompression: false` globally in `MeshConfig.defaultConfig` — meaning no breaking change for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio 1.29 enables HTTP compression (Brotli, Gzip, Zstd) for the Envoy **prometheus_stats** endpoint by default and removes the `sidecar.istio.io/statsCompression` Pod annotation, which might result in metric scrapers that send the **Accept-Encoding** header but cannot decompress responses failing to collect metrics.  As a mitigation, the Istio module 1.27.0 keeps the old setting in place for the time being by setting `statsCompression: false` globally in **MeshConfig.defaultConfig**.

This release maintains the current behavior, so you don’t need to take any action now. However, this is only a temporary compatibility measure. Future Istio module releases will remove it and switch to Istio’s new default behavior.
```
